---
title: "CSM Installation Wizard Helm"
linkTitle: "CSM Installation Wizard Helm"
description: Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard
weight: 1 
toc_hide: true
---  
<br>

Dell CSM Installation Wizard Support Matrix [Click Here](../../../../../supportmatrix/#supported-dell-csi-drivers)
<br> 
<br>
The Dell Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard is a webpage that helps you create a manifest file to install Dell CSI Drivers and CSM Modules. Users can enable or disable modules through the UI, and it generates a single manifest file, eliminating the need to download individual Helm charts for drivers and modules.

## Generate Manifest File

1. Open the [CSM Installation Wizard](./src/index.html).
2. Select the `Installation Type` as `Helm`/`Operator`.
3. Select the `Array`.
4. Enter the `Image Repository`. The default value is `dellemc`.
5. Select the `CSM Version`.
6. Select the modules for installation. If there are module specific inputs, enter their values.
7. If needed, modify the `Controller Pods Count`.
8. If needed, select `Install Controller Pods on Control Plane` and/or `Install Node Pods on Control Plane`.
9. Enter the `Namespace`. The default value is `csi-<array>`.
10. Click on `Generate YAML`.
13. A manifest file, `values.yaml` will be generated and downloaded.
14. A section `Run the following commands to install` will be displayed.
15. Run the commands displayed to install Dell CSI Driver and Modules using the generated manifest file.

## Installation Using Helm Chart

**Steps**

>NOTE: Ensure that the namespace and secrets are created before installing the Helm chart.

1. Add the Dell Helm Charts repository.

    On your terminal, run each of the commands below:

```terminal
helm repo add dell https://dell.github.io/helm-charts 
helm repo update
```

2. Copy the downloaded `values.yaml` file.

3. Look over all the fields in the generated `values.yaml` and fill in/adjust any as needed.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates `values.yaml` with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, you can follow the steps outlined in [PowerStore](../helm/drivers/installation/powerstore/#install-the-driver), [PowerMax](../helm/drivers/installation/powermax#install-the-driver), [PowerScale](../helm/drivers/installation/isilon#install-the-driver), [PowerFlex](../helm/drivers/installation/powerflex#install-the-driver), [Unity XT](../helm/drivers/installation/unity#install-csi-driver), [Observability](../csmoperator/modules/observability/), [Replication](../csmoperator/modules/replication/), [Resiliency](../csmoperator/modules/resiliency/).

4. When the PowerFlex driver is installed using values generated by installation wizard, the user needs to update the secret for driver by patching the MDM keys, as follows:

    ```terminal
    echo -n '<MDM_IPS>' | base64
    kubectl patch secret vxflexos-config -n vxflexos -p "{\"data\": { \"MDM\": \"<GENERATED_BASE64>\"}}"
    ```

5. If Observability is checked in the wizard, refer to [Observability](../csmoperator/modules/observability#post-installation-dependencies) to export metrics to Prometheus and load the Grafana dashboards.

6. If Authorization is checked in the wizard, only the sidecar is enabled. Refer to [Authorization](../../deployment/helm/modules/installation/authorization-v2.0/) to install and configure the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

7. If Replication is checked in the wizard, refer to [Replication](../../deployment/helm/modules/installation/replication/) on configuring communication between Kubernetes clusters.

8. If your Kubernetes distribution doesn't have the Volume Snapshot feature enabled, refer to [this section](../../snapshots) to install the Volume Snapshot CRDs and the default snapshot controller.

9. Install the Helm chart.

    On your terminal, run this command:

    ```terminal
    helm install <release-name> dell/container-storage-modules -n <namespace> --version <container-storage-module chart-version> -f <values.yaml location>
    Example: helm install powerstore dell/container-storage-modules -n csi-powerstore --version 1.4.0 -f values.yaml
    ```
