---
title: "Installation Wizard Helm"
linkTitle: "Installation Wizard Helm"
description: Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard
weight: 1
toc_hide: true
---
<br>

Installation Wizard Support Matrix [Click Here](../../../../../supportmatrix/#installation-wizard-compatibility-matrix)
<br>
<br>
The Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard is a webpage that helps you create a manifest file to install Dell CSI Drivers and CSM Modules. Users can enable or disable modules through the UI, and it generates a single manifest file, eliminating the need to download individual Helm charts for drivers and modules.

>Note:Ensure Helm 3.x, namespace, and secrets are set up before installing the Helm chart.

## Generate Manifest File

1. Open the [CSM Installation Wizard](/csm-docs/docs/getting-started/installation/installationwizard/src/index.html).
2. Select the `Installation Type` as `Helm`/`Operator`.
3. Select the `Array`.
4. Enter the `Image Repository`. The default value is `dellemc`.
5. Select the `CSM Version`.
6. Select the modules for installation. If there are module specific inputs, enter their values.
7. If needed, modify the `Controller Pods Count`.
8. If needed, select `Install Controller Pods on Control Plane` and/or `Install Node Pods on Control Plane`.
9. Enter the `Namespace`. The default value is `csi-<array>`.
10. Click on `Generate YAML`.
11. A manifest file, `values.yaml` will be generated and downloaded.
12. A section `Run the following commands to install` will be displayed.
13. Run the commands displayed to install Dell CSI Driver and Modules using the generated manifest file.

## Installation Using Helm Chart

**Steps**

>NOTE: Ensure Helm 3.x, namespace, and secrets are set up before installing the Helm chart.

- Add the Dell Helm Charts repository.

    On your terminal, run each of the commands below:

    ```bash
     helm repo add dell https://dell.github.io/helm-charts
     helm repo update
    ```

- Copy the downloaded `values.yaml` file.

- Look over all the fields in the generated `values.yaml` and fill in/adjust any as needed.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates `values.yaml` with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, you can follow the steps outlined in [CSI Driver](../helm#install-driver) {{< hide id="1" inline="true">}} ,[Observability](../helm/csm-modules/observability), [Replication](../helm/csm-modules/replication/),  {{< /hide >}},[Resiliency](../helm/csm-modules/resiliency/).

{{< hide id="2" >}}
- When the PowerFlex driver is installed using values generated by installation wizard,if any changes to MDM the user run following command to update it.

    ```bash
    echo -n '<MDM_IPS>' | base64
    kubectl create secret generic vxflexos-config -n vxflexos --from-file=config=samples/config.yaml --from-literal=MDM='xx.xx.xx.xx,yy.yy.yy.yy&zz.zz.zz.zz'
    ```
{{< /hide >}}

{{< hide id="3" >}}
- If Observability is checked in the wizard, refer to [Observability](../helm/csm-modules/observability/postinstallation) to export metrics to Prometheus and load the Grafana dashboards.
{{< /hide >}}

{{< hide id="4" >}}
- If Authorization is checked in the wizard, only the sidecar is enabled. Refer to [Authorization](../helm/csm-modules/authorizationv2-0/) to install and configure the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.
{{< /hide >}}

{{< hide id="5" >}}
- If Replication is checked in the wizard, refer to [Replication](../helm/csm-modules/replication/#install-container-storage-module-replication-controller) on configuring communication between Kubernetes clusters.
{{< /hide >}}

- If your Kubernetes distribution doesn't have the Volume Snapshot feature enabled, refer to [this section](v1/concepts/snapshots) to install the Volume Snapshot CRDs and the default snapshot controller.

- Install the Helm chart.

    On your terminal, run this command:

    ```bash
    helm install <release-name> dell/container-storage-modules -n <namespace> --version <container-storage-module chart-version> -f <values.yaml location>
    ```
    Example: helm install {{Var}} dell/container-storage-modules -n csi-{{Var}} --version 1.7.0 -f values.yaml