---
title: "CSM Installation Wizard"
linkTitle: "CSM Installation Wizard"
description: Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard
weight: 1
---

The [Dell Container Storage Modules Installation Wizard](./src/index.html) is a webpage that generates a manifest file for installing Dell CSI Drivers and its supported CSM Modules, based on input from the user. It generates a single manifest file to install both Dell CSI Drivers and its supported CSM Modules, thereby eliminating the need to download individual Helm charts for drivers and modules. The user can enable or disable the necessary modules through the UI, and a manifest file is generated accordingly without manually editing the helm charts.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard supports Helm and Operator based manifest file generation.

## Supported Dell CSI Drivers

| CSI Driver         | Version   | Helm   | Operator  |
| ------------------ | --------- | ------ | --------- |
| CSI PowerStore     | 2.8.0     |✔️      |✔️        |
| CSI PowerStore     | 2.7.0     |✔️      |✔️        |
| CSI PowerMax       | 2.8.0     |✔️      |✔️        |
| CSI PowerMax       | 2.7.0     |✔️      |✔️        |           
| CSI PowerFlex      | 2.8.0     |✔️      |❌        | 
| CSI PowerFlex      | 2.7.0     |✔️      |❌        | 
| CSI PowerScale     | 2.8.0     |✔️      |✔️        | 
| CSI PowerScale     | 2.7.0     |✔️      |✔️        | 
| CSI Unity XT       | 2.8.0     |✔️      |❌        | 
| CSI Unity XT       | 2.7.0     |✔️      |❌        | 

>NOTE: The Installation Wizard currently does not support operator-based manifest file generation for Unity XT and PowerFlex drivers.

## Supported Dell CSM Modules

| CSM Modules          | Version   | 
| ---------------------| --------- | 
| CSM Observability    | 1.6.0     |
| CSM Replication      | 1.6.0     |
| CSM Resiliency       | 1.7.0     |

## Installation

1. Open the [CSM Installation Wizard](./src/index.html).
2. Select the `Installation Type` as `Helm`/`Operator`.
3. Select the `Array`.
4. Enter the `Image Repository`. The default value is `dellemc`.
5. Select the `CSM Version`. 
6. Select the modules for installation. If there are module specific inputs, enter their values. 
7. If needed, modify the `Controller Pods Count`.
8. If needed, select `Install Controller Pods on Control Plane` and/or `Install Node Pods on Control Plane`.
9. Enter the `Namespace`. The default value is `csi-<array>`.
10. Click on `Generate YAML`.
13. A manifest file, `values.yaml` will be generated and downloaded. 
14. A section `Run the following commands to install` will be displayed.
15. Run the commands displayed to install Dell CSI Driver and Modules using the generated manifest file. 

## Installation Using Helm Chart

**Steps**

>NOTE: Ensure that the namespace and secrets are created before installing the Helm chart.

1. Add the Dell Helm Charts repository.

    On your terminal, run each of the commands below:

    ```terminal
    helm repo add dell https://dell.github.io/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

2. Copy the downloaded `values.yaml` file.

3. Look over all the fields in the generated `values.yaml` and fill in/adjust any as needed.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates `values.yaml` with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, you can follow the steps outlined in [PowerStore](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerstore/#install-the-driver), [PowerMax](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powermax/#install-the-driver), [PowerScale](../../csidriver/installation/helm/isilon/#install-the-driver), [PowerFlex](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerflex/#install-the-driver), [Unity XT](../../csidriver/installation/helm/unity/#install-csi-driver), [Observability](../../observability/), [Replication](../../replication/), [Resiliency](../../resiliency/).

4. When the PowerFlex driver is installed using values generated by installation wizard, the user needs to update the secret for driver by patching the MDM keys, as follows:

**Steps**
* `echo -n '<MDM_IPS>' | base64`
* `kubectl patch secret vxflexos-config -n vxflexos -p "{\"data\": { \"MDM\": \"<GENERATED_BASE64>\"}}"`

5. If Observability is checked in the wizard, refer to [Observability](../../observability/deployment/#post-installation-dependencies) to export metrics to Prometheus and load the Grafana dashboards.

6. If Authorization is checked in the wizard, only the sidecar is enabled. Refer to [Authorization](../../authorization/deployment/helm/) to install and configure the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

7. If your Kubernetes distribution doesn't have the Volume Snapshot feature enabled, refer to [this section](../../snapshots) to install the Volume Snapshot CRDs and the default snapshot controller.

8. If Replication is checked in the wizard, refer to [Replication](../../replication/deployment/) on configuring communication between Kubernetes clusters.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates values.yaml with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, follow the steps outlined in [PowerStore](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerstore/#install-the-driver), [PowerMax](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powermax/#install-the-driver), [PowerScale](../../csidriver/installation/helm/isilon/#install-the-driver), [PowerFlex](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerflex/#install-the-driver), [Unity XT](../../csidriver/installation/helm/unity/#install-csi-driver), [Observability](../../observability/), [Replication](../../replication/), [Resiliency](../../resiliency/).

9. Install the Helm chart.

    On your terminal, run this command:

    ```terminal
    
    helm install <release-name> dell/container-storage-modules -n <namespace> --version <container-storage-module chart-version> -f <values.yaml location>
    Example: helm install powerstore dell/container-storage-modules -n csi-powerstore --version 1.0.1 -f values.yaml
    ```
## Installation Using Operator

**Steps**

>NOTE: Ensure that the csm-operator is installed and that the namespace, secrets, and `config.yaml` are created as prerequisites.

1. Copy the downloaded `values.yaml` file.

2. Look over all the fields in the generated `values.yaml` and fill in/adjust any as needed.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates `values.yaml` with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, you can follow the steps outlined in [PowerStore](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerstore/#install-the-driver), [PowerMax](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powermax/#install-the-driver), [PowerScale](../../csidriver/installation/helm/isilon/#install-the-driver), [PowerFlex](../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerflex/#install-the-driver), [Unity XT](../../csidriver/installation/helm/unity/#install-csi-driver), [Observability](../../observability/), [Replication](../../replication/), [Resiliency](../../resiliency/).

3. If Observability is checked in the wizard, refer to [Observability](../../observability/deployment/#post-installation-dependencies) to export metrics to Prometheus and load the Grafana dashboards.

4. If Authorization is checked in the wizard, only the sidecar is enabled. Refer to [Authorization](../../authorization/deployment/helm/) to install and configure the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

5. If Replication is checked in the wizard, refer to [Replication](../../replication/deployment/) on configuring communication between Kubernetes clusters.

>NOTE: The CSM Installation Wizard generates values.yaml with the minimal inputs required to install the CSM. To configure additional parameters in values.yaml, follow the steps outlined in [PowerStore](../csmoperator/drivers/powerstore), [PowerMax](../csmoperator/drivers/powermax), [PowerScale](../csmoperator/drivers/powerscale), [Resiliency](../csmoperator/modules/resiliency).

6. Install the Operator.

    On your terminal, run this command:

    ```terminal
    kubectl create -f values.yaml
    ```
