---
title: PowerFlex
linktitle: PowerFlex
description: >
  Enabling CSM Authorization for PowerFlex CSI Driver
---

## Configuring PowerFlex CSI Driver with CSM for Authorization

Given a setup where Kubernetes, a storage system, and the CSM for Authorization Proxy Server are deployed, follow these steps to configure the CSI Drivers to work with the Authorization sidecar:

1. Apply the secret containing the tenant token data into the driver namespace. It's assumed that the Kubernetes administrator has the token secret manifest, generated by your storage administrator via [Generate a Token](../proxy-server/#generate-a-token), saved in `/tmp/token.yaml`.

    ```console
    # It is assumed that array type powerflex has the namepace "vxflexos".
    kubectl apply -f /tmp/token.yaml -n vxflexos
   ```

2. Edit these parameters in `samples/secret/karavi-authorization-config.json` file in the [CSI PowerFlex](https://github.com/dell/csi-powerflex/tree/main/samples) driver and update/add connection information for one or more backend storage arrays. In an instance where multiple CSI drivers are configured on the same Kubernetes cluster, the port range in the *endpoint* parameter must be different for each driver.

   | Parameter | Description | Required | Default |
   | --------- | ----------- | -------- |-------- |
   | username | Username for connecting to the backend storage array. This parameter is ignored. | No | - |
   | password | Password for connecting to to the backend storage array. This parameter is ignored. | No | - |
   | intendedEndpoint | HTTPS REST API endpoint of the backend storage array. | Yes | - |
   | endpoint | HTTPS localhost endpoint that the authorization sidecar will listen on. This will be the array endpoint to be configured for the driver. | Yes | https://localhost:9400 |
   | systemID | System ID of the backend storage array. | Yes | " " |
   | skipCertificateValidation  | A boolean that enables/disables certificate validation of the backend storage array. This parameter is not used. | No | true |
   | isDefault | A boolean that indicates if the array is the default array. This parameter is not used. | No | default value from values.yaml |

    Create the karavi-authorization-config secret using this command:

    `kubectl -n vxflexos create secret generic karavi-authorization-config --from-file=config=samples/secret/karavi-authorization-config.json -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -`

3. Create the proxy-server-root-certificate secret.

    If running in *insecure* mode, create the secret with empty data:

      `kubectl -n vxflexos create secret generic proxy-server-root-certificate --from-literal=rootCertificate.pem= -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -`

    Otherwise, create the proxy-server-root-certificate secret with the appropriate file:

      `kubectl -n vxflexos create secret generic proxy-server-root-certificate --from-file=rootCertificate.pem=/path/to/rootCA -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -`

4. Create the driver configuration secret applicable to your driver installation method.

    **Helm**

    Refer to step 4 in the [Install the Driver](../../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerflex/#install-the-driver) section to edit the parameters in `samples/config.yaml` file to configure the driver to communicate with the CSM Authorization sidecar.

    - Update `endpoint` to match the endpoint in `samples/secret/karavi-authorization-config.json`. For example, iff you are using the default value, the `endpoint` should be `https://localhost:9400`.

    - Update `skipCertificateValidation` to `true`.

    - The `username` and `password` can be any value since they will be ignored.

    - Create the vxflexos-config secret using this command:

      `kubectl create secret generic vxflexos-config -n vxflexos --from-file=config=config.yaml -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -`

    **Operator**

    Refer to step 2 in the [Install Driver](../../../csidriver/installation/operator/powerflex/#install-driver) section to prepare the `config.yaml` to configure the driver to communicate with the CSM Authorization sidecar.

    - Update `endpoint` to match the endpoint in `samples/secret/karavi-authorization-config.json`. For example, if you are using the default value, the `endpoint` should be `https://localhost:9400`.

    - Update `skipCertificateValidation` to `true`.

    - The `username` and `password` can be any value since they will be ignored.

    - Create the vxflexos-config secret using this command:

      `kubectl create secret generic vxflexos-config -n vxflexos --from-file=config=config.yaml -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -`

5. Enable CSM Authorization in the driver installation applicable to your installation method.

    **Helm**

    Refer to step 9 in the [Install the Driver](../../../csidriver/installation/helm/powerflex/#install-the-driver) section to edit the parameters in *myvalues.yaml* file to enable CSM Authorization.

    - Update `authorization.enabled` to `true`.
    
    - Update `authorization.sidecarProxyImage` to the image of the CSM Authorization sidecar. In most cases, you can leave the default value.

    - Update `authorization.proxyHost` to the hostname of the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.
    
    - Update `authorization.skipCertificateValidation` to `true` or `false` depending on if you want to disable or enable certificate validation of the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

    **Operator**

    Refer to step 4 in the [Install Driver](../../../csidriver/installation/operator/powerflex/#install-driver) section to edit the parameters in the Custom Resource to enable CSM Authorization.

    Under `modules`, enable the module named `authorization`:

    - Update the `enabled` field to `true.`

    - Update the `image` to the image of the CSM Authorization sidecar. In most cases, you can leave the default value.

    - Update the `PROXY_HOST` environment value to the hostname of the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

    - Update the `SKIP_CERTIFICATE_VALIDATION` environment value to `true` or `false` depending on if you want to disable or enable certificate validation of the CSM Authorization Proxy Server.

    ```
    modules:
      # Authorization: enable csm-authorization for RBAC
      - name: authorization
        # enable: Enable/Disable csm-authorization
        enabled: true
        configVersion: v1.7.0
        components:
        - name: karavi-authorization-proxy
          image: dellemc/csm-authorization-sidecar:v1.6.0
          envs:
            # proxyHost: hostname of the csm-authorization server
            - name: "PROXY_HOST"
              value: "csm-authorization.com"
          
            # skipCertificateValidation: Enable/Disable certificate validation of the csm-authorization server       
            - name: "SKIP_CERTIFICATE_VALIDATION"
              value: "true"
    ```

7. Install the CSI PowerFlex driver following the appropriate documenation for your installation method.

8. (Optional) Install [dellctl](../../../references/cli) to perform Kubernetes administrator commands for additional capabilities (e.g., list volumes). Please refer to the [dellctl documentation page](../../../references/cli) for the installation steps and command list.